You've undoubtedly heard that eating processed food is unhealthy a lot. Preservatives and processed foods should be avoided, but nobody ever really explains why you should do so or why doing so is risky. So that you completely comprehend why you should avoid these offenders, let's break it down.
Although it's true that we humans have a genuine propensity to become addicted to particular foods, this isn't completely our fault. Almost all of the unhealthy foods we occasionally indulge in cause the dopamine neurotransmitter in our minds to be active. The brain feels fine after doing this, but only briefly. This also increases the likelihood of addiction, which is why some people constantly find themselves returning for more confectionery bars despite not actually needing them. By completely eliminating that trigger, you can prevent all of this.
The high fructose corn syrup and other sugars that are abundant in processed and animal-based foods have almost no nutritional worth. Numerous studies are now confirming what many people already knew: eating foods that have been genetically modified causes gut inflammation, which makes it more difficult for the body to receive vital nutrients. It is impossible to overstate the negative effects of your body's improper absorption of vital nutrients, which range from muscle loss and cognitive decline to fat increase.
Your body perceives artificial components as foreign substances when you consume them. They basically turn into an intrusion. Things like sucralose or these artificial sugars are unfamiliar to your body. Your body then performs its finest functions. It triggers an immune response which lowers your resistance making you vulnerable to diseases. The focus and energy spent by your body in protecting your immune system could otherwise be diverted elsewhere.
In their quest to load up on more animal protein most people end up displacing the plant protein that they already had. This is bad because unlike plant protein, animal protein often lacks in fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. Fiber deficiency is quite common across different communities and societies in the world. In the USA, for instance, according to the Institute of Medicine, the average adult consumes just about 15 grams of fiber per day against the recommended 38 grams. Lack of adequate dietary fiber intake is associated with an increased risk of colon and breast cancers, as well as Crohn’s disease, heart disease, and constipation.
